Unit 2: World of Color


WEEK 3


             Writing and Drawing: Observational Drawings
                           Children match colors to objects they draw.
             NOTE: This is a two-part learning experience that continues in Week 4.


Big Ideas          Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
                   There is an infinite variety of colors.

Guiding            What colors do we notice all around us?
Question           How do colors provide information?

Family             Invite families share an item from home or from nature that children could
Engagement         draw.

Vocabulary         dark: having little or no light
                   light: not intense or deep in color
                   observational: from what we observe, or see

Materials and            ●​ Red is a Dragon or Green is a Chile Pepper, Roseanne Greenfield
Preparation                 Thong
                            Flag page 23-24 in Red is a Dragon or Green is a Chile Pepper
                         ●​ Option 1: paint color samples (from a store or donated by families)
                         ●​ Option 2: online paint colors
                         ●​ Option 3: Color Samples resource
                         ●​ 4-5 pre-selected objects to match light and dark colors of the same
                            hue
                         ●​ paper
                         ●​ drawing tools such as colored pencils, crayons, or markers
                            Offer drawing tools that include a variety of shades and tints.

Intro to Centers Option 1: Red is a Dragon:
                        In Red is a Dragon, the child notices things around her are different
                        colors. She explores the world around her to find many things for
                        each color.
                 Show blue on pages 23-24.


                                                                          Writing and Drawing U2 W3
                                  Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                         On this page, the dragonfly wings are a light blue, but her dress is a
                         dark blue. They are both blue.
                  Option 2: Green is a Chile Pepper:
                         In Green is a Chile Pepper, the children notice things around them
                         that are different colors. They explore the world around them to find
                         many things for each color.
                  Show blue on pages 23-24.
                         On this page, the sky is a light blue, but the ladder is a dark blue.
                         They are both blue.
                  Both:
                         Colors can be light or dark.

                          This week at the Writing and Drawing Center, we will make
                          observational drawings, drawings of what we observe or see, by
                          choosing the color that best matches the object and using that to
                          color our drawing.
                  Model picking an object and narrate while choosing the colored pencil.
                          This _____[object] is ______[color]. I’m going to look for a colored
                          pencil that’s the same color.
                  Pick a color that is too dark and hold it against the object.
                          This colored pencil is _____[color]! But does it look just like my
                          object? I think it’s a darker shade. Let me choose another one.
                  Pick a color that more closely matches and hold it up.
                          This color looks the same!

During Centers    Children carefully select colors that closely match their object. Support
                  children in noticing tints and shades. They then draw the object. Remind
                  children to draw things the way they are, as we see them, and not as we
                  might imagine or like them to be.

                  Encourage children to label their drawings with the name of the object as
                  well as the color.

Differentiation      ●​ Provide names of colors in multiple languages (individualize to the
Ideas                   class context).
                     ●​ Be sure to program or add a wide variety of colors and vocabulary
                        words to any assistive technology device.
                     ●​ Model drawing an object with the corresponding color.

Facilitation         ●​ What color would you choose to draw this _____[object]? Why?
                     ●​ Do we need a lighter or darker _____[color name]? How do you
                        know?
                     ●​ What details do you see on this object? How could you draw those?
                     ●​ What words should we write about your drawing?



                                                                       Writing and Drawing U2 W3
                               Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
Extensions   Set out materials ie.g., natural materials, flowers, leaves) of various tints
             and shades. Invite children to sort materials by color family, arrange from
             light and dark, etc.

Standards    PreK.SEL8 The child will engage socially, and build relationships with other
             children and with adults.
             PreK.APL4 The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of
             materials.
             W.PK.2 Use a combination of dictating and drawing to supply information
             about a topic.



Notes




                                                                  Writing and Drawing U2 W3
                          Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                                        Writing and Drawing U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
