Source: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1MHDgTJvV3OSf9b8Z87OHTTaV_dMUIeTF/view
Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 2
Writing and Drawing: Multilingual Color Poem or Book
Children write a poem or book together using color words in the languages they speak.
Big Ideas Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
We can all communicate about colors.
Guiding
Question
What colors do we notice all around us?
How can we explore and communicate ideas and feelings through colors?
Family
Engagement
Invite families to share the names of colors in their languages. Create cards
or a list of the color names for each language spoken by children and
teachers in the class.
Vocabulary favorite: the one you like the most
multilingual: knowing more than one or many languages
poem: a piece of writing that can rhyme and usually expresses imagination
and emotion
Color words in languages spoken by children in the class (e.g. Spanish: azul:
blue amarillo: yellow rojo:red)
Materials and
Preparation
● Green Is a Chile Pepper or Red is a Dragon, Roseanne Thong
● chart paper
● markers
● poem example
If creating a poem, write the poem on the chart paper.
● Green Is a Chile Pepper visual glossary, from Week 2, Read Aloud
● Favorite Objects visual (optional)
Gather the names of colors in the languages spoken in the class. Ask
families to support or use online resources such as Google Translate.
Decide if you want to create a class poem or a class book. If a poem, see
the example below. If creating a book, children can create individual or
Writing and Drawing U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2shared pages to contribute.
Poem Example:
Our Favorite Colors
[use this pattern to create a class poem using the
children’s names and favorite items]
We love colors in all our languages!
Maya loves blue flowers - azul (Spanish)
María loves yellow butterflies - amarelo (Portuguese)
Iman loves green trains - أخضر) pronounced akhdar -
Arabic)
…[continue for all children in the class]
We love colors in all our languages!
Intro to Centers In Green is a Chile Pepper, all of the color words are written in two
languages, English and Spanish.
Look through the book and read some of the words together.
In our classroom, we speak many different languages.
If the classroom is monolingual, name the language spoken and some other
languages spoken by others in the school community.
What language do you speak with your family?
Invite children to share and support them if they are unsure. Teachers can
also share the languages they speak.
Having more than one language in our classroom is amazing, our
community is multilingual.
Today we will write our own book [or poem] using the color words we
know in our languages. You can add the name of your favorite color
in your language or a language you are excited about. We can also
draw pictures of things that are that color to illustrate our poem.
During Centers Invite children to look at the multilingual color cards and notice the
different ways to say the names of the colors. Read some of the color
names and track print while reading.
Invite children to add their own line to the poem or page to the book, by
choosing a language and a favorite color/object to include.
Writing and Drawing U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Invite children to create illustrations for the poem or book page. If writing a
poem, the illustrations can be made on small pieces of paper, and
cut/glued around the edges of the poem to decorate.
Read the poem/book back to the children as it is created.
Differentiation
Ideas
● Add in more words in children’s home languages, if known (i.e. not
just the color word but also objects or feelings).
● Use the favorite objects communication support (see below) to
support children with choosing an object and its color.
● Invite children to select their favorite color from a set of color cards
or from objects around the room, providing them the word in
English or another language.
Facilitation ● What is your favorite color? Why do you like it the most?
● How do you say [color name] in your language?
● What is something you love that is (blue, red…)? Why do you love
it?
● How will you draw your [red balloon…] to illustrate our
poem/book?
● How is the way you say yellow in [Spanish] different from [Arabic]?
Extensions Encourage children to join you in reading the poem/book or tracking print
while you read aloud. Rather than expecting them to read all the words,
focus their attention on their own and their friends’ names, which they
might recognize in print.
Make printed copies of the finished poem or book to send home so
that children can share and read with their families.
Read the poem or book in the end-of-unit celebration.
Standards W.PreK.1 Dictate words to express a preference or opinion about a topic
(e.g., “I would like to go to the fire station to see the truck and meet the
firemen.”).
W.PreK.2 Use a combination of dictating and drawing to supply information
about a topic.
RL.PreK.9 With prompting and support, make connections between a story
or poem and their own experiences.
PreK.SEL7 The child will demonstrate the ability to communicate with
others in a variety of ways.
Writing and Drawing U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
