Unit 2: World of Color


WEEK 3


                Library and Listening: Exploring Emotions
  Inspired by The Color Monster: a story about emotions, children act out different emotions.


Big Ideas         We can all communicate about colors.
                  There is an infinite variety of colors.

Guiding           How can we explore and communicate ideas and feelings through colors?
Questions         How do colors provide information?

Family            Encourage families to share how they say “angry,” “sad,” and “calm,” in
Engagement        their home languages. Add these to the list of feelings words or feelings
                  chart to reference.
                  Share children’s paintings and feelings words with families and invite them
                  to keep talking about feelings at home.

Vocabulary        anger: mad
                  calm: relaxed and peaceful
                  fear: scared
                  happy: joyful
                  loved: to be cared for
                  sadness: not happy

Materials and            ● The Color Monster: a story about emotions, Anna Llenas
Preparation                Create tabs with sticky notes for each emotion: happiness, sadness,
                           anger, fear, loved
                         ● The Color Monster: a story about emotions character puppets
                         ● Color Monster emotions cards
                           Cut in half and laminate.
                         ● Allie All Along, Sarah Lynne Reul, from Unit 1
                         ● Allie All Along character puppets, from Unit 1
                         ● additional books about feelings or that include characters that have
                           strong emotions
                         ● colored scarves
                         ● mirrors

                                                                          Library and Listening U2 W3
                                  Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                      ● people figurines, like the block people you use for acting out
                        Problem Stories
                      ● class Feelings Chart or Feelings Visuals, from Unit 1
                      ● chart paper and markers
                        Title the chart paper: It’s ok to feel big emotions

                   Bring to the Intro to Centers: The Color Monster: a story about emotions,
                   one colored scarf, Color Monster emotions cards

Intro to Centers          In The Color Monster: a story about emotions the Color Monster is
                          all mixed up with emotions.
                   Show The Color Monster: a story about emotions. Show the first page with
                   the color monster mixed up and then flip to sadness.

                         When have you felt sad?
                   Show the chart paper. Chart and discuss 2 responses.

                          This week in Library and Listening, you can act out different
                          emotions, or feelings. _____[child’s name] just shared that she felt
                          sad when her mommy left this morning. I am going to pretend to be
                          ____ and I will wear the blue scarf like the blue color monster. And
                          ____, can you be the Mommy?
                   Act out the scene. When acting out sadness, be sure to emphasize the
                   body language and facial expression.

                         In Library and Listening, you will find more scarves. You will also find
                         books about feelings, like The Color Monster and Allie All Along and
                         character puppets. You can also find these Color Monster emotions.
                         You can use these to help you act out all kinds of emotions.
                   Show the Color Monster emotion cards.

                          You may choose to act out different emotions with a friend. I think it
                          will help us all to notice and respond to our feelings.

During Centers     Children act out different emotions using the various resources available.
                   Invite children to talk and think about times when they had these big
                   feelings.Make connections between children’s experiences with different
                   emotions. (e.g., I heard ____ and _____ felt fear when that happened).

                   If ready, ask children to share what they did to cope with the feeling. Add
                   to the “It’s ok to feel big emotions” chart.

                   Encourage children to share and practice regulation strategies. Remind
                   children of the mindfulness and breathing practices from Community
                   Meeting.


                                                                        Library and Listening U2 W3
                                Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
 Differentiation            ●   Invite children to paint or draw their emotion stories.
 Ideas                      ●   Act out Color Monster or Allie All Along using character puppets.
                            ●   Connect texts with describing feelings using the feelings visuals.
                            ●   Use feeling strategies cards to support learning self-regulation skills.
                            ●   If children feel uncomfortable acting out an emotion themselves,
                                encourage them to use the people figurines instead.

 Facilitation               ● Tell us about your story. How will you act that out?
                            ● What did your face or body feel like when you were _____
                              [emotion]? What did you do afterwards?
                            ● What happens when you feel mixed up, like the Color Monster?
                            ● When did you feel _____ like the Color Monster?
                            ● How will you work with your friend to tell that story about when
                              you felt _____?

 Standards            SEL1: The child will be able to recognize, identify, and express his/her
                      emotions.
                      RL.PK.9. With prompting and support, make connections between a story
                      or poems and one's own experiences.
                      SL.PK.4. Describe personal experiences; tell stories.

Image Citations for Center Language Supports
angry: open domain
calm: open domain
fearful: 张 学欢 on UnSplash
happy: Terricks Noah on UnSplash
sad: open domain
loved: jun0126 on Pixabay


 Notes




                                                                             Library and Listening U2 W3
                                     Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                                        Library and Listening U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
