Source: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1bqGqdYc1DBvsRSh59sHmLEVQoB2Es72n/view
Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 2
Math: Collecting Leaves
Children demonstrate one to one correspondence by adding leaves to a five frame .
Big Ideas Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
Colors can be mixed to make new colors.
Objective I am learning to count objects to 5. (Learning Trajectories, p. 1-2)
Guiding
Questions
What colors do we notice all around us?
How do colors provide information?
Family
Engagement
Encourage families and caregivers to collect leaves with children.
Encourage them to look at the leaves, notice the colors and count the
number of leaves they find.
Vocabulary less: a smaller amount than something else
more: a bigger amount than something else
equal: the same amount as something else
Materials and
Preparation
● Goodbye Summer, Hello Autumn, Kenard Pak
Flag a page with autumn leaves in the illustration.
● number dot cards 0-5 or dice 0-5 enough for each child at the
center (see Week 1)
● blank 5 frame, one for each child
Cut out.
● leaf template
Cut out the leaves. Make enough so that each child could have up to
5.
● Building Blocks Teacher’s Guide pg. 104 week 7
Intro to Centers Today in the Math Center we are going to play a game with colorful
leaves, and a five frame. A five frame is a strip with 5 boxes in a row
to help you count.
Hold up the five frame.
Math U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2These leaves are similar to the leaves in Goodbye Summer, Hello
Autumn. The leaves in the story are green, red, yellow, and brown.
Just like the leaves we are going to use today to play a game in the
math center.
First we are going to pull a Number Card from the pile (or roll a die).
What number is this? How did you know this was a ____? Let’s
count to make sure it is a _____?
Count out loud with children.
Now we are going to add that many leaves/leaf to our five frame.
Let’s count as we add them to five frame.
What if we want one more leaf on the tree? More means a bigger
amount than something else. What can we do?
Harvest children’s ideas.
What If we want one less leaf on the tree? Less means a smaller
amount of something. What can we do?
Harvest children’s ideas.
What if I want the same amount as my friend _____? The same
amount is equal. They have 1 and I want 1. What can I do?
Harvest children’s ideas.
We will play this game at the Math Center.
During Centers Encourage children to pull a card or roll a die. Have them count to see how
many they will add to their five frame. Then count the leaves to see if it is
the same as the card they pulled.
Differentiation
Ideas
● Count using lower numbers (0-5).
● Use larger sized objects or felt for leaves.
● Place velcro on the leaves and where they go (on 5-frame and/or
tree) so that they stay in place when children are counting.
● Use 5-frame cards with or without numerals (0-5).
● For a more tactile 5-frame, use wiki sticks or craft sticks to
demarcate the lines on the 5-frame or cut an egg cart down to 5
spaces.
● Use the tree templates pre-marked with spaces for leaves on the
tree (located in the adapted resource folder).
● Say the number without showing the card.
● As an extension, count up to higher numbers (5-10).
Math U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Facilitation ● How many leaves do you have on your five frame? How do you
know?
● What if you added one more, how many do you have on your five
frame now?
● Do you have more or less than ______? How do you know?
Standards PreK.SEL7 The child will demonstrate the ability to communicate with
others in a variety of ways.
PreK.APL4 The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of
materials.
PK.CC.A Know number names and the counting sequence.
1. Listen to and say the names of numbers in meaningful contexts
Notes
Math U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
