Source: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Ic7k0tA1EY1JlgT6kwnp1VYmHodddZBF/view
Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 2
Library and Listening: Storytelling with PropsStrictly No Elephants
Children use book character puppets and props to retell Strictly No Elephants.
Big Ideas We can all communicate about colors.
There is an infinite variety of colors.
Guiding
Questions
What colors do we notice all around us?
How can we explore and communicate ideas and feelings through colors?
How do colors provide information?
Family
Engagement
Continue to invite families and caregivers to share their children’s favorite
books/stories to retell in the Library and Listening Center. If families share
titles of stories, share the story electronically or find the title at the library.
Vocabulary character: a person or animal in a story, play, or movie
retell: to tell a story again
Materials and
Preparation
● Strictly No Elephants, Lisa Mantchev
● Strictly No Elephants character puppets (included with Read Aloud
plans)
● small basket or container to hold character puppets
● large fabric swatches
● additional props such as stuffed animals, animal figurines, an
umbrella
● white paper
● writing and drawing tools
● glue sticks or tape, to make additional puppets/props
● popsicle sticks, to make additional puppets/props
● scissors, to make additional puppets/props
Bring the following to the Intro to Centers: Strictly No Elephants, character
puppets, 1 fabric swatch, additional props
Library and Listening U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Intro to Centers We enjoyed reading Strictly No Elephants. In Library and Listening
this week, you can retell this story, or tell the story again.
Show Strictly No Elephants.
To help you retell the story, the character puppets will be in Library
and Listening.
Show the character puppets. Open to the beginning of Strictly No Elephants
and invite children to describe the scene and narrate what is happening.
Demonstrate using the puppet(s) to act out the scene, using vocabulary
and dialogue.
I also added some more items to the Center. You will find fabric
swatches and a few additional props. You might decide to also use
these items to help you retell the story.
Show fabric and props.
During Centers Children retell the story using the character puppets and/or the props.
Support children to negotiate choosing puppets/props. A child without a
puppet might be the narrator who turns the pages of the book to help the
actors retell the story.
Children might want to create additional props such as the “Strictly No
Elephants sign” or pet puppets.
Affirm children’s impulses to change the story in original ways.
Differentiation
Ideas
● Turn the pages of the book to help children remember one story
event at a time; talk through what’s happening in the illustration
and/or reread the text; make suggestions about what a character
can say.
● Use story sequencing visuals from the visual comprehension
resource included in the differentiated access for each read aloud.
● Invite children to draw a character or an event in a story.
● Invite children to retell an alternate ending or add characters.
Facilitation ● What happens in this book?
● What is happening here with the characters, the people or animals
in the story?
● How do you think the character feels during this part?
● Has something like this ever happened to you? Tell us about what
happened.
● How might you tell a different ending to the story?
Extensions ● Invite children to retell additional favorite books from home or
teachers’ favorite books.
Library and Listening U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Standards SEL5. The child will display empathetic characteristics.
APL5. The child will cooperate with others in play and learning.
APL8. The child will be able to retain and recall information.
RL.PK.2. With prompting and support, retell a sequence of events from a
story read aloud.
Notes
Library and Listening U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
