Unit 2: World of color


WEEK 3


                                 Math: Bead Bracelets
       Children demonstrate one to one correspondence by adding beads to a bracelet.


Big Ideas          Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
                   We can all communicate about colors.

Objective          I am learning to count objects to 5. (Learning Trajectories, p. 1-2)

Guiding            What colors do we notice all around us?
Questions          How do colors provide information?

Family             Encourage families and caregivers to have children notice colors in their
Engagement         environment.

Vocabulary         less: a smaller amount than something else
                   more: a bigger amount than something else
                   equal: the same amount as something else

Materials and            ● Mouse Paint, Ellen Stole Walsh
Preparation                Flag pages 5-6.
                         ● blue, red, and yellow beads
                         ● pipe cleaners, or beading string
                         ● 3 bowls
                         ● number dot cards 0-5 or dice 0-5, from Math Unit 1, Week 6
                         ● blank Five Frames, one for each child, from Unit 2, Week 2
                         ● Building Blocks Teacher’s Guide, pg. 116, week 8

                   Provide children with a bowl of blue, red and yellow beads. Give one pipe
                   cleaner or beading string to each child, and set up the number dot cards or
                   dice at the center of the table. Give each child a Five Frame.

Intro to Centers          Let’s look at the mice in Mouse Paint. What do you notice about the
                          colors of the mice?
                   Harvest children’s ideas.

                                                                                          Math U2 W3
                                 Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                         Today in the Math Center we are going to build a bracelet using the
                         primary colors blue, red, and yellow. We are going to do this with
                         our Five Frame, number cards/die, beads, and pipe cleaners.

                         Now we are going to play the game. First we are going to pull a
                         Number Card from the pile (or roll a die). What number is this?
                         How did you know this was a ____? Let’s count to make sure it is a
                         _____?
                  Count out loud with children.

                         Next we are going to add that many beads to our Five Frame. Let’s
                         count as we add them to our Five Frame. Then we are going to add
                         them to our bracelet.

                         What if I wanted one more bead on my bracelet? More means a
                         bigger amount than something else. What can I do?
                  Harvest children’s ideas.

                         What If I wanted one less leave on my bracelet? Less means a
                         smaller amount of something. What can I do?
                  Harvest children’s ideas.

                         What if I wanted the same amount as my friend _____? The same
                         amount is equal. They have 1 and I want 1. What can I do?
                  Harvest children’s ideas.

                         We will play this game at the Math Center.

During Centers    Provide children with blue, yellow and red beads. Support children to pull a
                  number card or roll a die. Encourage children to count the beads and place
                  them in the Five Frame before adding them to their bracelet.

Differentiation      ● Use larger sized beads, a shoestring, or a studier pipe cleaner to
Ideas                  make it easier for children to manipulate. Help children with
                       stringing beads as needed.
                     ● Use 5-frame cards with or without numerals (0-5).
                     ● For a more tactile Five Frame, use wiki sticks or craft sticks to
                       demarcate the lines on the Five Frame or cut an egg cart down to 5
                       spaces.
                     ● As an extension, count up to higher numbers (6-10).
                     ● Say the number of beads to add without showing the number card.

Facilitation         ● How many beads do you have on your Five Frame? How do you
                       know?
                     ● If you added one more, how many do you have on your Five Frame
                       now?

                                                                                        Math U2 W3
                               Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                ● Do you have more or less than ______? How do you know?

Extensions   During outside time, encourage children to find things that are blue, red or
             yellow. Have children count the items they find.

Standards    PreK.SEL7 The child will demonstrate the ability to communicate with
             others in a variety of ways.
             PreK.APL4 The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of
             materials.
             PK.CC.A Know number names and the counting sequence.
             1. Listen to and say the names of numbers in meaningful contexts




Notes




                                                                                   Math U2 W3
                          Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                                                         Math U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
