Source: https://drive.google.com/file/d/16cqPaCv0iT5vULAwvqS5S1HSpLFTFwim/view
Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 2
Dramatic Play: Making Soup
Continued from Week 1
Vocabulary chop: cut into small pieces
ingredients: things that are mixed together to make a dish
peel: to take off the skin from a fruit or vegetable
prepare: to make something
recipe: a list of ingredients and directions for making food
stir: to mix by moving a spoon/ladle in a circle
Additional
Materials
● Soup Day, Melissa Iwai
Flag the recipe at the end of the book.
● recipes or cookbooks
Flag pages with soup recipes.
● pretend spices or empty spice containers or something to represent
spice containers
● spice labels (to add to empty containers or taped to blocks)
Bring the following to the Intro to Centers: Soup Day, a pot, a ladle, a few
spices.
Intro to Centers Did you visit Dramatic Play last week? Remember all of the different
kinds of soup we made?
Invite a few children to share their experiences in the Center so far.
This week, we will continue to be chefs in the kitchen making
different kinds of soup. This week, I added a few soup recipes and
cookbooks for you to reference. Remember that a recipe includes
ingredients and directions to follow to cook something. There is a
recipe at the end of Soup Day!
Show the recipe in Soup Day. Point to the ingredients list and the
directions. Read aloud.
You and a friend might work together to make Vegetable Soup when
you visit Dramatic Play.
Dramatic Play U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2I also added a few new spices to Dramatic Play such as salt and
pepper. These spices help to change the flavor of food. You might
want to use these spices in your soup, as well. You don’t need a lot,
just a little bit to adjust the taste of your soup.
Show the spices. Demonstrate adding some salt and pepper to a pot.
Standards SEL7: The child will demonstrate the ability to communicate with others in
a variety of ways.
SEL8: The child will engage socially, and build relationships with other
children and with adults.
APL5: The child will cooperate with others in play and learning.
SL.PK.1. Participate in collaborative conversations with diverse partners
during daily routines and play.
Notes
Dramatic Play U2 W2
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
