Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 3
 
Writing and Drawing: Color Party Invitations
Children decorate invitations to let their families and friends know about a Color Party that
will mark the end of the unit.
Vocabulary invitation: a note that tells where and when to come to special event
Materials ● invitations to the Color Party
Complete the invitations. Then copy and cut in half for children to
decorate the border.
● colored pencils or crayons, to decorate invitations
● classroom calendar
● clipboard or whiteboard and markers
Plan a date for your Color Party, a classroom celebration to mark the end of
the unit, near the end of Week 6. Consult with families and caregivers
about a time when they are most likely to be able to attend. If the families
you work with are unlikely to be able to join during school hours, consider
an evening or weekend event. You could also plan to invite other classes or
members of the school community to your party.
Intro to Centers We are learning so much about colors in our classroom. In a few
weeks, we will have a color party to share our learning with our
families and friends.
If you have a calendar in the classroom, demonstrate adding a note to the
calendar that says “color party” on the day the party is scheduled.
Who should come to our party?
Write down children’s ideas on clipboard or whiteboard.
What should we do during the party? What should we wear? What
colorful food should we serve?
Continue to write down children’s ideas.
We need to let our families and friends know that they should come
to the party. We need to make invitations - or notes that tell where
and when to come to a special event.
Writing and Drawing U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2During Centers Support children to decorate the invitations and write or dictate the names
of family and friends if they choose. Children may also choose to draw a
picture of the person they want to invite.
After Centers Send the invitations home to families at the end of the week, so that
families can plan ahead to attend the Color Party in Week 6. Be sure to
send a reminder to families as well, closer to the date of your party.
Standards W.PK.2 Use a combination of dictating and drawing to supply information
about a topic.
Notes
Writing and Drawing U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
