Unit 2: World of Color


WEEK 3



             Dramatic Play: “All Are Welcome” Clubhouse
                 Children create and dramatize an All Are Welcome Clubhouse.
                This is a two-part learning experience that continues in Week 2.


Big Ideas          Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
                   We can all communicate about colors.

Guiding            What colors do we notice all around us?
Questions          How can we explore and communicate ideas and feelings through colors?
                   How do colors provide information?

Family             Share with families and caregivers that a clubhouse will be created in the
Engagement         classroom. Talk with them about children’s experiences in creating spaces.
                   Perhaps children love to make pillow forts or chair forts at home. Or
                   perhaps they love to read under the blanket with a flashlight. Use this
                   information to inform the classroom clubhouse.
                   Once the ideas with the children are solidified, ask families and caregivers
                   to borrow or donate items for the clubhouse (e.g., flashlights, stuffed
                   animals, sheets, books, etc.)

Vocabulary         build: to make something by putting materials together
                   clubhouse: a special space for children to talk and play with each other
                   collaborate: to work together
                   create: to make or produce

Materials and      The Dramatic Play Center will become an All Are Welcome Clubhouse.
Preparation           ● Strictly No Elephants, Lisa Mantchev
                          Flag pages 25-26 and 29.
                      ● chart paper and markers
                          Title the chart paper: Room ____’s All Are Welcome Clubhouse.
                      ● large piece of cardboard or poster paper, to create a sign
                      ● paper (to create additional props, etc.)
                      ● writing and drawing tools
                      ● glue sticks or tape


                      ● scissors
                      ● Clubhouse Activities Visual Menu

                   The full materials list will depend on the type of clubhouse children
                   envision and set out to create. Some ideas for clubhouse materials include:
                      ● large empty boxes
                      ● blankets
                      ● sheets
                      ● flashlights
                      ● pillows
                      ● stuffed animals
                      ● books

                   Any dramatic play furniture can be incorporated into the clubhouse or
                   turned around/put away.

                   Bring the following to the Intro to Centers: Strictly No Elephants, chart
                   paper and markers, Clubhouse Activities Menu.

Intro to Centers         In Strictly No Elephants, the children decide to create, or make, their
                         own club. They create a sign that says “All Are Welcome.” What do
                         you notice?
                   Show Strictly No Elephants. Invite children’s responses.

                           What do you think an All Are Welcome Clubhouse would feel like?
                           Why?
                   Invite children’s responses.

                          For the next two weeks in Dramatic Play, we will set up our own All
                          Are Welcome Clubhouse, like in Strictly No Elephants. A clubhouse is
                          a special space for children to talk and play with each other. And we
                          can create any type of clubhouse we would like.

                            Let’s think about what we want for our clubhouse. What should our
                            clubhouse have?
                   Chart children’s ideas. Make suggestions if children are unsure (e.g., chairs
                   for sitting, cushions and carpet for playing on the floor, etc.).

                           Now let’s think about how to build our clubhouse in the Dramatic
                           Play Center. What kinds of materials might we need?
                   Chart children’s ideas. Make suggestions if children are unsure. Name
                   possibilities for children (e.g., restructure the existing furniture and chairs,
                   put a large blanket over a large table, use large cardboard boxes, etc.).

                          Let’s think about how to make our clubhouse welcoming.



                  Chart children’s ideas. Make suggestions if children are unsure (e.g., create
                  an All Are Welcome sign, add pillows, put up drawings, family photos,etc.).

                         What might you do in the clubhouse? What materials might we
                         need?
                  Chart children’s ideas. Make suggestions if children are unsure. Show the
                  clubhouse activities menu.

                  Synthesize children’s ideas. All ideas will not come to fruition, but rather,
                  decide which ideas are realistic and doable. Circle the items that the
                  classroom already owns and also some that families might donate.

During Centers    Children help to create the All Are Welcome Clubhouse and then dramatize
                  playing in the clubhouse.

                  In the first several days, support children in building and creating the
                  clubhouse. Children can rearrange the space, make the All Are Welcome
                  sign, decorate, organize. If necessary, relaunch the “All Are Welcome”
                  Clubhouse conversation and revisit their ideas.

                  When playing and pretending in the Clubhouse, support children with
                  selecting their roles and bringing in materials.

Differentiation      ● Have a pre-existing plan for setting up the space.
ideas                ● Invite children to draw their ideas or plans for the clubhouse.
                     ● Children can use stuffed animals to act out clubhouse play.
                     ● A clubhouse could be made on a smaller scale with a medium
                       cardboard box (e.g., a copy paper box).
                     ● Children could use flashlights to read books to each other or stuffed
                       animals.
                     ● Play in the clubhouse to model language and interactions.

Facilitation         ●   Tell us about your idea for the All Are Welcome Clubhouse.
                     ●   What is your plan?
                     ●   How could we build that?
                     ●   How will you work with your friends?
                     ●   I don’t think we have that material. What else might we add?
                     ●   What will you pretend in the All Are Welcome Clubhouse?
                     ●   Why is it important to have an “all are welcome” clubhouse?

Extensions        Invite children to create a clubhouse outside on the playground.

Standards         SEL8: The child will engage socially, and build relationships with other
                  children and with adults.
                  APL2: The child will demonstrate eagerness and curiosity as a learner.
                  APL4: The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of materials.


                       SL.PK.1b. Continue a conversation through multiple exchanges.



Image Citations on Center Language Supports
build: mliu92 on flickr
clubhouse: Nathan Dumlao on Unsplash
collaborate: Carlonem on Pixabay
create: Bjørnar Kibsgaard on Pixabay




 Notes
