Unit 2: World of Color
WEEK 3
Blocks: Building Treehouses
Children build a treehouse with blocks, cardboard, and parts of trees.
This is a two-part learning experience that continues in Week 4.
Big Ideas Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
We can all communicate about colors.
Guiding
Questions
How can we explore and communicate ideas and feelings through colors?
How do colors provide information?
Family
Engagement
Invite families to share their childhood experiences with treehouses.
Vocabulary treehouse: a structure built within the branches of a tree, usually for
children to play in
sign: information - words or pictures - hung up for people to read or see
directions: how to get somewhere
collaborate: to work with someone else on something
Materials and
Preparation
● Strictly No Elephants, Lisa Mantchev
○ Flag page 24
● wooden unit blocks
● colored blocks
● sticks, branches, wood cuttings (that have been sanded)
● cardboard
● Treehouse Visuals
● Simple Block Structures: Treehouses
Hang the Treehouse Visuals and Simple Block Structures: Treehouses in the
Block Center. Bring a few blocks and the Strictly No Elephants book to Intro
to Centers.
Intro to Centers In Strictly No Elephants, the children turn a treehouse into a place
for all to play - people of all skin colors, languages, and abilities.
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Point to the treehouse on page 24.
The children make signs - papers with words on them - for their
treehouse to show that everyone is welcome, and one friend stands
nearby to help give people directions for how to get to the
treehouse.
Point to the signs and the child giving directions in the illustration.
This week in the Block Center, you can collaborate - work together -
to build a treehouse using blocks. How can you make a welcoming
treehouse where everyone wants to come play?
During Centers Encourage children to reference the Treehouse Visuals for visuals, and then
to make a plan or design together before building. Invite children to think
about what makes a space feel welcoming to them, and how they can
incorporate that into their designs.
Support children in building more complex structures by modeling stacking
blocks on top of each other. Provide rich vocabulary about their structures
that support their building, such as “stable” and “symmetrical.”
Differentiation
Ideas
● Children can work with smaller blocks at a table or other surface if
maneuvering unit blocks is a challenge.
● Children could create the perimeter of the tree house using unit
blocks or cardboard blocks and play inside of it.
● Children (or children in collaboration with adults) can make signs for
the block area for other children to use, or can make a map or
directions for how to get to the treehouse.
● If a child would benefit from more specific play guidance, reference
the Simple Block Structures visuals to help them get started.
For further modified learning experiences, see: Blocks, Building Autumn
Trees and Treehouses Differentiated Access.
Facilitation ● What color do you want to make your treehouse?
● How can you make everyone feel welcome in your treehouse?
● What sign can you make for the treehouse? How would that sign be
helpful?
Extensions Children can draw their treehouse design after building it to help them
share their ideas and build representational drawing skills.
Create a treehouse inside, on the playground, or in an outdoor classroom.
Try building with different kinds of materials.
Standards PreK.SEL8 The child will engage socially, and build relationships with other
children and with adults.
PreK.APL4 The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of
materials.
PreK.APL5 The child will cooperate with others in play and learning.
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2U2 W3 Center Language Supports
Blocks: Building Treehouses
Facilitation prompts:
● What color do you want to make your treehouse?
● How can you make everyone feel welcome in your treehouse?
● What sign can you make for the treehouse?
treehouse
sign directions
collaborate
Children are learning to…
● express a preference or opinion about a topic
● engage socially, and build relationships with other children and with adults
● demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of materials
Image citations
treehouse: from fietzfotos on Pixabay; sign: from aaronburden on Unsplash; directions: from jamietempleton on
Unsplash; collaborate: from Carlonem on Pixabay
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Treehouse Visuals
Image from Skitterphoto on Pixabay
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Image from Hans on Pixabay
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Image from Maryn Brayfield on Unsplash
Blocks U2 W3
Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2Simple Block Structures- Treehouses
treehouse
Image credit: treehouse:Albrecht Fietz from Pixabay, blocks: Priyanka Shah
Blocks U2 W3
Adapted for Focus on Pre-K | Boston Public Schools Department of Early Childhood P-2
