Unit 2: World of Color


WEEK 3



                     Art Studio: Mixing Primary Colors
              Children explore mixing primary paint colors to create new colors.


Big Idea          Colors can be mixed to make new colors.


Guiding           What happens when we mix colors together?
Question

Family            Invite caregivers and family members to share their favorite colors and why
Engagement        they love them. Encourage multilingual families to share some color words
                  in their home languages.

Vocabulary        easel: a stand that holds paper for painting
                  mix: put different things together
                  thick: big or wide in size [gesture by holding hands apart]
                  thin: small in size [gesture by holding hands close together]

Materials and            ● Mouse Paint, Ellen Stoll Walsh
Preparation                Flag pages 9-10.
                         ● easel
                         ● large paper
                         ● paint cups, clear plastic or glass jars, with lids
                         ● tempera paint: red, yellow, blue
                         ● paintbrushes of different sizes
                         ● drying rack or a place to hang paintings to dry
                         ● smocks
                         ● Art Easel Routine visual, from Unit 1, Week 4
                         ● vocabulary card for easel, from Unit 1, Week 4, Friends At School
                           Read Aloud
                         ● Color Mixing visual
                           Put out just the yellow+red section of the visual at first.
                         ● Color cards resource



                   Position the easel so that more than one child can paint at one time. Set
                   out paint cups with blue and red paints and brushes of different sizes the
                   children can easily access. Hang smocks nearby. Print out the Color Cards
                   resource and place nearby.

                   Bring to the Intro to Centers: container each of red and yellow paint, a thin
                   brush, a thick brush, a clipboard, paper, Mouse Paint, and the vocabulary
                   card for easel.

Intro to Centers         In our Art Studio we have an easel.
                   Show the vocabulary card for easel.
                         Give a thumbs up if you have painted at the easel before.

                          Today we have two colors of paint at our easel, yellow and red.
                   Hold up each color of paint.

                           You can mix, or put together, red and yellow together to make new
                           colors, just like the mice in Mouse Paint.
                   Show Mouse Paint, pages 9-10.
                           What do you see?
                   Invite children to respond to the group or to turn and talk with a partner.

                          I think I’ll use a thick, or big, paintbrush to add a little red to my
                          paper, like this.
                   Gesture holding hands apart for the word “thick.” Model painting red on
                   the paper.

                          Now I’ll use this thin, or smaller, brush to add some blue.
                   Gesture holding hands close together to demonstrate “thin”.

                          What do you think will happen if I mix red and blue together? You
                          can go to the Art Studio today to find out!

                          When you are finished using the paint, make sure the brushes are
                          ready for the next person coming to the easel. Rinse your brushes in
                          the water cup and put them back in the easel tray.

During Centers     Over the course of the week, put out different color combinations of
                   primary colors for mixing, such as blue and red, then yellow and blue.
                   Continue to offer two primary colors at a time.

                   Support children with the logistics of putting on and taking off smocks,
                   setting up and taking down paper, placing brushes in the paint cups, and
                   keeping mess to a minimum.



                  As children make predictions and observations about color mixing, provide
                  vocabulary. Support them to notice and reflect on how mixing different
                  amounts of each color results in different hues. Invite children to refer to
                  the Color Cards and notice the names and different colors.

                  Encourage children to explore the paint using different-sized brushes.
                  Support them to notice and reflect on the effects of using different kinds of
                  brushes and having more or less paint on the brush.

                  Suggest that children collaborate and paint together on one piece of paper.

                  Integrate color words in multiple languages, using the Color Cards resource
                  to make connections to Green is a Chile Pepper or Red is a Dragon, and
                  include color words that families have shared from their home languages.

Differentiation      ● Refer children to the Color Mixing visuals. Put out one visual at a
Ideas                  time (e.g. just yellow+red when those colors are offered).
                     ● Continue to refer to the Art Easel Routine visuals.
                     ● Consider using a paint brush that is easier for the child to grasp.
                       One way to modify thin handled paint brushes is to add playdough
                       around the handle.
                     ● Model mixing colors together.
                     ● Note that children with sensory sensitivities may struggle with the
                       mess of painting with liquid paints, or may seek it out and want to
                       paint on their bodies. Monitor how children respond.
                     ● Support children by narrating each step of color mixing: put yellow
                       paint on paper, put red paint on paper, mix with the brush, look it’s
                       orange!

Facilitation         ●   Which is your favorite color? What do you like about it?
                     ●   What colors do you notice in Mouse Paint?
                     ●   What color are you making when you mix ____ with ____?
                     ●   What do you notice happens when you use a thin/thick brush?
                     ●   Tell me about your painting.
                     ●   How are you going to make sure materials are ready for the next
                     ●   painter?

Extensions        Invite children to mix new paint colors on trays rather than directly on the
                  paper, and to save newly-mixed paint colors in additional containers.
                  Children can also name their colors. Write or help children write labels on
                  the containers.

Standards         SEL7. The child will demonstrate the ability to communicate with others in
                  a variety of ways.
                  APL4. The child will demonstrate creativity in thinking and use of materials.


                      APL7. The child will demonstrate organizational skills.
                      SL.PK.1. Participate in collaborative conversations with diverse partners
                      during daily routines and play.

Image Citations for Center Language Supports:
easel: Justyn Warner on Unsplash
mix: Sarah Richardson
thick: https://www.optima.inc/the-work-of-mark-rothko/
thin: M. Tonachel


 Notes
