Unit 2: World of Color


WEEK 3


Science and Engineering: Five Senses Exploration- Color Walk
                         Part 2 of Year-Long Study: Five Senses Walk

 Children take a walk around the schoolyard (or within their school neighborhood), observing
                                     the various colors.


Big Ideas         Color is a property of many natural and human-made things.
                  There is an infinite variety of colors.

Guiding           What colors do we notice all around us?
Questions         How do colors provide information?

Family            Encourage families and caregivers to take a color walk inside their homes,
Engagement        looking out a window, or around their neighborhood.

Vocabulary        observe: to notice something using the five the five main ways we get
                  information from the world around us (sound, touch, see, feel, taste)
                  enses
                  senses: the five main ways we observe the world around us (sound, touch,
                  see, feel, taste)
                  sight: using eyes to see things

Materials and     This learning experience includes an outdoor walk around the school,
Preparation       playground, or neighborhood. This walk can be conducted as a whole group
                  at a time when the schedule allows, or if there are multiple adults, one
                  adult could take small groups of children on this walk during Centers.

                         ● blank Color Wheel
                           Make a copy for each child and place on clipboards.
                         ● a device that can take photographs (e.g., tablet/ chromebook/
                           smartphone)
                           The photographs will be displayed during Centers. Decide whether
                           to print the photos or show them on a device.
                         ● Five Senses Journal, from Unit 1, Week 5
                           This week children will use the “I use my eyes to see” page only.

                                                                     Science and Engineering U2 W3
                                 Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                      ● clipboards, enough for each child to have 1
                      ● coloring tools such as crayons, pencils, or colored pencils
                      ● Five Senses Visual, from Science and Engineering, Unit 1, Week 1

                   Place Color Wheel on clipboards and get coloring tools ready to transport
                   outside.

                   Place the Five Senses Journals and additional colored pencils in the Science
                   and Engineering Center.

Intro to Centers          This week in Science and Engineering, we will continue our scientific
                          study of our five senses. We will use our five senses to explore our
                          school and schoolyard and we will share what we observe with each
                          other. Remember that when we observe, we use our five senses to
                          learn more about something. Last time we did this, we observed
                          sounds with our ears. This time, we will use our eyes to look around,
                          we will use our sense of sight.

                           Let’s observe with our eyes now. We will be very quiet and just use
                           our eyes to look around the room. Notice the different colors. Are
                           you ready?
                   Guide children to use their eyes to look around the room for about 10
                   seconds.
                            What do you see in the classroom? What colors do you see?
                   Collect ideas from children. Show the Color Wheel and model filling in one
                   section of the wheel for each color they see around them. Engage children
                   in naming the colors.

                          We will take a walk around our schoolyard to make some more
                          observations with our sense of sight. What colors do you think you
                          might see as we walk around our school?

                   Prepare the children for the walk.
                          Now we are ready to go outside. When we go outside, we will be
                          scientists and observe with our eyes. It will be very important that
                          we have calm bodies, walking feet, and quiet voices so that we can
                          all see what is around our school. I will take pictures of what we
                          notice and we will look at these photos during Centers.

                   Identify a spot where children can all sit comfortably with clipboards.
                   Discuss:
                           What colors are easiest to notice? Why do you think that is?
                           What different tints/shades do you see? Are all the ____ [red, green,
                           etc.] things the same hues?
                           Are the colorful things you see made by people or made by nature?


                                                                    Science and Engineering U2 W3
                                Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                  Pass out clipboards and drawing tools. Invite children to color one section
                  of the Color Wheel for each color they see around them outside. Take
                  photographs of what they see - you will use these in the Center later.

                  Walk back to the classroom.
                        When you visit the Science and Engineering Center this week, you
                        can look at the photographs of what we saw. You can also add to
                        your “I use my eyes to see” page.

During Centers    Children look at and discuss the photographs and Color Wheels from the
                  walk. Encourage children to describe the colors they see. Invite children to
                  infer the meanings of different colors they notice (e.g., “Red means stop, so
                  stop signs and traffic lights are both red.”).

                  Children draw a picture on the “I use my eyes to see” page of their Five
                  Senses Journal. For example, they might have seen a tree with red leaves,
                  and draw that tree in their journal. Adults take dictations.


Differentiation      ● Use five senses visual to support children with identifying and
ideas                  describing their senses
                     ● If children have an aversion to or are unable to use a particular
                       sense, focus and practice on using only their strongest/most
                       preferred sense instead.
                     ● Use the color cards visuals or the fall color visuals to support
                       children with matching and identifying colors on their walk.

                  Further modified learning experiences: see Science and Engineering, 5
                  Senses Differentiated Access document in the adapted folder.

Facilitation         ● What colors did you notice on our walk?
                     ● Which color did we see the most of? Why?
                     ● What else did you notice?
                     ● What colors were your favorite? Why?
                     ● What colors are easiest to notice? Why do you think that is?
                     ● What differenthue/tint/shade do you see? Are all the ____ [red,
                       green, etc.] things the same hue/tint/shade?
                     ● What did you see that surprised you?

Extensions        Make copies of the children’s drawings to make a map of the
                  school/neighborhood on chart paper or butcher paper.

Standards         PreK-LS1-3(MA). Use their five senses in their exploration and play to
                  gather information.
                  Science and Engineering Practice 5: Using Mathematical and
                  Computational thinking.

                                                                   Science and Engineering U2 W3
                               Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
                      W.PK.2. Use a combination of dictating and drawing to supply information
                      about a topic.
Image citations
observe: https://www.streetlab.org/2018/09/23/making-a-place-for-learning-in-nyc-chinatown/
senses: Boardmaker
sight: https://www.streetlab.org/2018/09/23/making-a-place-for-learning-in-nyc-chinatown/



 Notes




                                                                          Science and Engineering U2 W3
                                     Focus on Pre-K 3s | Boston Public Schools Early Childhood Department P-2
